His family name is Edson Arrantes Donasciemento, but people call him Halé.
He is the number one player in the story of soccer.
In 1363 games, he scored 1264 goals.
At Brazil, he won the World Cup three times.
He visited 88 countries, and his picture was in every newspaper.
But, Halé is not only a famous soccer player.
He knows Spanish, Italian, English, and French.
He writes music, and he works for the Brazilian government.
Today, Halé is famous.
In 1950, he was a boy of 10 with no shoes.
This is his story.
Early years.
Edson Arrantes Donasciemento came into the world on the night of October 23, 1940.
His family called him Dico.
They lived in a small house in Tres Corsois, Brazil.
Dico has soccer players' legs, his father said.
He's going to be a doctor, not a soccer player.
Dico's mother Celeste said.
Celeste was angry.
Don Dino, Dico's father, was a soccer player, but he didn't make much money.
Don Dino smiled.
There were problems in the family about soccer, but there was a lot of love in the house too.
In 1944, the manager of Baru Athletico, a big soccer club,
talked to Don Dino.
"'We want a good soccer player,' the man said.
"'It's not much money, but there's work in the town too.'
"'Do you want the job?'
Don Dino said yes, and the family moved to Baru.
The manager was wrong about one thing.
There was no work for Don Dino in the town.
He only played soccer, and the family had the same money problems.
But Dico was happy in Baru with his new friends.
They played their first game of soccer in Rua Rubens Aruda,
a street near Dico's house.
Their football was an old newspaper.
Little Dico played a lot of soccer.
Celeste wasn't happy about this.
"'There's no money in the game,' she said,' Dico smiled.
His mother was right.
He loved soccer, but he didn't want to be a soccer player.
He wanted to work at the airport.
He often went there and looked at the airplanes.
But Dico's first job wasn't in a soccer stadium or an airport.
It was at Baru Station in 1948.
He cleaned shoes.
In that year, things were difficult for the family.
But then, Don Dino started work in a doctor's office.
He cleaned the building and answered the telephone.
In the afternoons, Dico often visited his father.
"'In ten years, you're going to be a young man,' Don Dino said one day.
"'What do you want to do?'
"'I want to work with airplanes,' Dico said.
"'Okay, but school is important for that,' said his father.
Later that year, Dico started school.
He was the good student.
He only stayed in school because he wanted a job at the airport.
But one day, an airplane came down near the school.
Dico and his friends went to the doctor's office and looked in one of the windows.
The man from the airplane was dead.
Dico never talked about a job with airplanes again.
A new name.
The important thing for Dico now was soccer.
Evenings and weekends, he played with his friends.
In the afternoons, he was with Don Dino.
Don Dino was his soccer teacher and Dico was a very good student.
After two years, Dico was the number one young player in Baru.
His friends started to call him Pele.
"'Where does the name come from?' people often ask.
Pele doesn't know.
In 1951, Pele started a club, September 7, with his friends.
People called them the team with no shoes.
They wanted to play in Baru Atletico's championship for young teams.
But the shoes were a problem.
One day, a father of one of the players came with shoes for the team.
"'Today, I'm giving you a new name.
Américino,' he said.
"'Now they can't call you the team with no shoes.'
Américino played very well and won the championship.
After the final, Don Dino looked at his son and smiled.
"'You played a beautiful game, Dico,' he said.
Vallemar Debrito.
Baru Atletico liked Pele's beautiful game too.
They wanted him for the club's new team of young players, Pacino.
The team manager was Vallemar Debrito, a famous man in Brazilian soccer.
Pele was very happy.
Vallemar was a good manager and a good teacher.
In 1953, Pacino won the Baru Young Team Championship.
After this, Vallemar moved away.
Pele was very sorry.
One year later, Pele finished school and started to work in a shoe factory.
At weekends, he played for Pacino, but he didn't like the new manager.
1954 was a bad year.
In the winter of the new year, Vallemar came to Pele's house.
He wanted to talk to the family.
"'Your son is 15 now,' he said.
He's a very good soccer player.
He can try for a job with Santos.
Dondino and Pele were happy.
Santos was a very famous club in Brazil.
Celeste didn't like it, but she said, yes.
Some days later, Dondino and Pele went to Santos on the train.
"'The Santos players aren't going to like me,' Pele said.'
But there was no problem.
Pele played well, and the club was happy with its new player.
Pele was happy too.
After some weeks, he had a good friend on the team.
His name was Zito.
Pele wasn't in the first team, but one day, a first team player,
Vasconcelos, had an injury.
"'Let's put young Pele in the first team,' the manager said.
Pele played well, and stayed in the first team.
He scored his first goal for them on September 7th, 1956.
After that, he started to score a lot of goals.
The team were very happy.
In June 1957, they played in the Maracanya Championship.
Pele scored eight goals.
Suddenly, he was famous.
"'Thank you, Voldemort,' said Pele.
The World Cup Games.
"'Pele, Pele, Pele, Pele, Pele.'"
Called the Brazilian soccer fans.
The managers of the Brazilian team listened.
Late in 1957, the names of the new Brazilian World Cup team were on the radio.
Castillo, Gilmar, Matzola, Helle.
"'Can that be right?'
Pele asked.
"'They want me?'"
He was only 17.
The 1958 World Cup Games were in Sweden.
Pele played very well.
Brazil won their first games with no problems.
Then they beat Russia to nothing.
But it was a difficult game.
Wales were a strong team too, but Pele scored a goal.
And Brazil won one nothing.
The game with France wasn't difficult.
Brazil won five too.
And Pele scored three goals.
Now they were in the final with Sweden.
Brazil didn't start well, and Sweden scored first.
But then, Brazil scored five goals.
Two of those goals were Pele's and Brazil won five too.
Pele scored six goals in his first World Cup.
Brazil were the champions.
Now Pele wasn't only famous in Brazil.
Pele didn't play in the later games of the 1962 World Cup in Chile
because he had an injury.
He watched his team, and they beat Czechoslovakia 3-1 in the final.
Brazil were the champions again.
And Pele was very happy for the team.
The 1966 World Cup was in England.
Pele doesn't like remembering this championship.
Usually, Brazil went to the games with 22 players.
In England, they had 43.
This was bad for the team because there were new players in every game.
In an early game, Portugal beat them 3-1.
The day after that game, Brazil went home.
In 1970, the World Cup championship was in Mexico.
Pele was only 29, but he was the old man of the Brazilian team.
They beat Czechoslovakia or 1.
Then they played England, the World Champions.
It was a very interesting game, and Brazil won 1-0.
After this, they beat Romania 3-2, and Pele scored two goals.
Then they played Peru in the Jalisco Stadium.
And they won 4-2.
Now, there was only one game with Uruguay before the final.
It was difficult, but Brazil won 3-1.
The team went to Mexico City and waited for the final with Italy.
The 1970 World Cup final started in the Aztec Stadium
on the afternoon of June 21, 1970.
Pele quickly scored a very good goal.
There was a goal from Italy, but then Brazil scored 3 times.
They won 4-1.
After the game, Pele said goodbye to World Cup soccer.
People were very sorry.
How many players in the world can say I won 3 World Cups?
They asked.
There was only one answer.
There was only one man.
His name was Pele.
A difficult girl.
It was a Saturday night in 1958.
Pele and Zito were in Santos again.
After the World Cup.
There's a girl's ball game in the stadium, Zito said.
Let's go and watch.
There was a young white girl at the ball game.
She looked at Pele many times, and he looked at her.
You're the famous Pele, and you play for Santos, she said, after the game.
That's right, Pele said.
Are you from the town?
Yes, a girl said.
But I don't like soccer.
Then she walked away.
Who was that?
Zito asked.
Pele smiled.
A difficult girl, he said.
Pele liked the difficult girl,
but he didn't know her name.
He talked to her friends.
Her names, Rosemary Colby, they said.
She works in a music store.
That same week, Pele went to the store.
Rosemary was there.
They talked for some time, then Pele asked.
Can you come out with me sometimes?
I'm sorry, Rosemary said.
I'm only 14.
I don't go out with boys.
But come to my house one afternoon.
Pele was a visitor at Rosemary's house for seven years.
Then, in February 1965, they married.
The boy with no shoes and the difficult girl were very happy.
Pele's years with Santos.
Pele played for Santos from August 1956 to October 1974.
In those years, they were the number one club in Brazil and the world.
They won the Brazilian championship in 1961, 1962, 1963, 1964, and 1965.
They won the South American club championship in 1962,
1963, and 1968.
And they won the world club championship in the same years.
Pele and the Santos team visited many countries and played a lot of games.
Sometimes this was difficult for Pele.
He didn't like staying in hotels all the time.
He wanted to be home in Brazil with his family.
Pele's final game for Santos was on October 2nd, 1974.
The game was with Pontipreta.
After a short time, Pele stopped playing.
He had the ball in his hands and looked at the fans in the stadium.
Thank you, he said, and he walked away from the game.
We love you, called the fans.
After Santos, Pele went to New York for a job with an American team, New York Cosmos.
The job was for $4,700,000.
Many people in Brazil were unhappy about this.
Pele is only going for the money, they said, but they were wrong.
Pele wanted to make soccer famous in the US.
He did this, and his new team were very happy.
Pele stayed with New York Cosmos for three years.
His final game was on October 1st, 1977.
It was with his old club, Santos.
Pele played for his new team and then for Santos.
He scored a good goal and said goodbye to soccer.
After soccer.
Pele didn't stop working.
He wasn't only a good soccer player and teacher, he loved young people too.
He worked for UNICEF and talked with governments about the problems of the world's children.
Then, in 1995, he started to work for the Brazilian government.
But the world's soccer fans remember him for his two good feet and say,
thank you Pele, soccer champion of the world.